Sora 2 is [music] absolutely breaking
the internet right now. Creators are
posting videos that are getting hundreds
of thousands of likes. We're talking
content going bonkers viral on every
platform. But here's the thing. Most
people are still spending hours, even
days trying to figure this thing out
through pure trial and error, getting
weird results, burning through
generations, and still not understanding
what actually works. In this guide, I'm
going to show you exactly how to master
Sora 2. You're getting the prompt
formulas that actually work, the
mistakes you need to avoid, and real use
cases you can start using today. Whether
you're creating social content,
advertising, real estate walkthroughs,
or client presentations. Let me show you
what we're working with here. All right,
let me log in and show you the
interface. When you first land on the
homepage, you'll see a feed of videos.
Some of these have already gone
absolutely viral. You can also see
content from other creators in the
community. Now, before we dive deeper,
let me show you what makes Sora 2
different from other AI video tools out
there. First, the quality. Sora 2
generates incredibly realistic video,
smooth motion, consistent lighting, and
detailed textures. We're talking
cinematic level output that you can
actually use in real projects. Second,
it understands natural language prompts
really well. You don't need to be a
prompt engineer. You can describe what
you want in plain English, and Sora gets
it. No complex technical jargon
required. Third, and this is huge,
reference image support. You can upload
photos of products, locations, or
specific scenes, and Sora will base the
video on those references. This means
consistent branding for client work and
accurate product videos. And fourth,
you've got character consistency.
Through the character library feature,
you can create a character once and then
use that same character across multiple
videos. This is a gamecher for
storytelling and branded content. Let me
generate a video right now so you can
see the quality. I'll keep it simple.
Let's try a tiny astronaut making coffee
inside a normal human kitchen. Steam
rising from the mug. Soft morning light.
Cinematic close-ups. Shallow depth of
field. Hit generate. This takes about 20
to 30 seconds depending on server load.
And there we go. Look at this. A
miniature astronaut in full gear making
coffee in a regular-sized kitchen. The
scale contrast is perfect. The steam
rising from the mug, the soft morning
light creating that cozy atmosphere, and
those cinematic close-ups with shallow
depth of field make it feel like a
highbudget commercial. This is the kind
of creative, unexpected content that
performs incredibly well on social
media. That's the power here.
highquality AI generated video that's
actually usable for real projects,
whether it's social content, creative
campaigns, or just pure viral
entertainment. Now, that first
generation was cool, but here's where
I'm going to make a switch. For the rest
of this tutorial, I'm switching over to
AI Master, the platform I built for
myself. We need more control, more
features, and frankly, a better
workflow. On AI master, we get access to
Sora 2 through the API, which means we
can do things that you can't do on the
standard chat GPT interface. We get
generations without watermarks. We can
enhance our prompts with one click, and
we're not juggling multiple
subscriptions. Everything is in one
place. In fact, Sora 2 Pro isn't even
available to regular Chat GPT
subscribers. You can only access it
through the API, which is exactly what
AI Master gives you. If you want to try
it out, the link will be in the
description. So from here on out,
everything I show you is happening
inside AI master. All right, here's the
AI studio interface with Sora 2 already
selected. The interface is clean and
straightforward. At the top, you've got
your prompt box. This is where you
describe what you want to generate.
Below that, you can upload reference
images if you want Sora to base the
video on a specific product location or
scene. Just drag and drop your images
here. Next, you choose your aspect
ratio. vertical for social media like
Tik Tok and Instagram reels or
horizontal for YouTube and ads. Then you
set your duration 10 seconds or 15
seconds depending on how much footage
you need. And there's a character
creation field here as well. You can
create custom characters and use them
across multiple video generations. We'll
talk more about that feature in a bit.
All right, interface tour done. Let's
get into the practical stuff. Prompting
Sora 2 is not the same as prompting an
image model or even a text model. You
need to think cinematically. You're not
just describing a scene. You're
directing a short film. I'm going to
give you five core prompt formulas that
work consistently. These are templates
you can adapt to whatever you're trying
to create. Formula one, scene plus
camera movement plus style. This is your
bread and butter for cinematic B-roll or
atmospheric content. Structure,
location, or scene description plus
camera movement plus visual style or
mood. Example, modern office space,
smooth dolly shot. Moving forward,
cinematic lighting, professional
aesthetic. Let me generate that right
now. I'll paste that prompt in. Keep the
aspect ratio at 16 to9 for a standard
video format. And actually, here's a
cool feature. If you're not confident
about your prompt, there's an enhance
prompt button right here. You can write
something basic like office video, hit
enhance, and AI master will rewrite it
into a fully structured prompt like the
one we just used. It's a huge timesaver.
All right, I'll hit generate. While
that's cooking, let me give you the
second formula. Formula two, product
plus context plus mood. This one is
killer for e-commerce product demos or
anything where you need to showcase an
object in a compelling way. Structure
product name plus environment or surface
plus camera behavior plus aesthetic or
mood. Example, luxury watch on marble
desk. Slow rotating close-up, soft
shadows, elegant and minimal. Here's the
key. Sora 2 loves specificity. If you
say watch, you'll get a generic result.
If you say luxury watch on marble desk,
you're given it context and the output
quality jumps significantly. Let me cue
that one up as well. All right, our
first generation is done. Look at this
smooth forward dolly through a modern
office. Natural light coming through the
windows. clean and professional. This is
the kind of footage you'd use for a
corporate video, a LinkedIn ad, or
B-roll in a tutorial, and I didn't have
to shoot anything. 30 seconds, one
prompt. By the way, everything you
generate in AI Master, you can publish
to the marketplace. Other users can
download your generations, and you'll
earn tokens for each download. Those
tokens convert to real money that you
can withdraw. So, you're not just
practicing, you're potentially earning
from your work in multiple ways. Now,
let's check second generation. Slow
rotation. The lighting is catching the
surface just right, and the wooden desk
gives it that premium feel. You could
drop this straight into a product ad.
All right, quick break here, but this
actually fits perfectly with what we've
been talking about, using AI to speed up
your workflow and create professional
results fast. So, I've been using this
tool called UX Pilot. It's an AI powered
design platform that lets you create
wireframes and highfidelity designs in
seconds. And honestly, it's been a
gamecher for my content creation
process. They've got this feature called
Blitz that makes the whole process
incredibly fast and consistent. You
describe what you need and Blitz
generates complete designs in seconds.
Not minutes, literally seconds. The
consistency across screens and
components is impressive and it saves me
hours of manual work. Here's what makes
it different. First, Autoflow tool. This
is huge. You describe the user flow you
need and autoflow generates an automated
structured user flow in seconds. It maps
out the entire journey, screens,
transitions, decision points, all
organized and ready to go. This alone
saves hours of wireframing work. Second,
you can import your existing design
systems directly from Figma. If you
already have a design system built, you
bring it into UX Pilot and use it across
all your projects. Or you can use
component themes to quickly apply
consistent styling across your designs.
This is massive for teams. Everyone's
working with the same components. No
inconsistency. Third, clickable
prototypes right inside the platform.
This is a gamecher for product managers
and designers. You can create a working
prototype directly on the website and
present it to your boss, your team or
clients. It brings instant credibility
because they're not just looking at
static screens. They're actually
clicking through, testing user flows,
interactions, and navigation in real
time. Super fast iteration and way more
convincing presentations. And here's my
favorite feature. Direct copy paste into
Figma. No plug-in needed. You design in
UX Pilot, copy it, paste it into Figma,
and keep working. It's seamless. If
you're doing any kind of product design,
landing pages, app mockups, or even just
wireframing ideas for client pitches,
this tool saves you hours. Link to UX
Pilot is in the description. Check it
out. It's free to start. All right,
let's get back to the prompt formulas.
Formula 3, storybased prompt, multi-cut
generations. This is where things get
really interesting. If you need multiple
shots or angles in one video, you can
tell Sora to add cuts by using the word
cut in your prompt. Structure,
character, or subject, plus action
sequence with cut to plus location
details. Example, real estate agent
walks through a luxury home. Cut to
kitchen closeup. Cut to living room wide
shot. Bright natural light. Modern
interior design. I'm going to run this
one because it's a perfect use case
we'll talk about later. Prompt entered.
Generate. While that's processing,
here's formula 4. Perspective plus
action plus environment. This formula
works great when you want a specific
point of view or creative angle.
Structure camera angle or POV plus
subject and action plus environment and
mood. Example, low angle shot of
sneakers walking on wet city street at
night, neon reflection, cinematic and
moody. This is awesome for social
content, POV shots, unique angles, stuff
that grabs attention in the first 2
seconds of a Tik Tok or real. Let me
generate that one, too. And finally,
formula five, process and transformation
shots. This formula is perfect when you
want to show something being made,
created, or transformed. These kinds of
videos are incredibly satisfying to
watch and perform really well on social
media. Structure, process, or
transformation, plus camera angle plus
mood and pacing. Example: paint being
mixed on canvas, overhead shot, smooth
brush strokes, artistic and satisfying.
This works great for product demos,
creative content, cooking videos,
crafting, anything where there's a
visual process happening. People love
watching things come together or change
form. It's that oddly satisfying content
that keeps viewers watching till the
end. Let me run that one. Okay, the real
estate walkthrough just finished. This
is exactly what I was talking about.
Look, we start with the agent walking
through the entryway, then a cut to a
close-up pan across the kitchen
countertop, and finally a wide shot of
the living room. Sora gave us a sequence
with logical cuts between different
rooms. I just told it where to cut, and
it handled the transitions. Now, this
sneaker shot. Check this out. Low angle,
wet pavement, neon signs reflecting in
the puddles. This is Tik Tok gold. You
post this with the right audio, and it's
getting views. And here's the paint
mixing shot. Look at those brush
strokes, the colors blending together,
that overhead angle capturing all the
detail. This is the kind of content that
gets millions of views on Instagram and
Tik Tok. Oddly satisfying, visually
engaging. You could use this for
creative portfolio content, process
videos, or even product demos for art
supplies. Five formulas, five different
use cases, all generated in under 3
minutes total. All right, before we go
further, let me talk about AI Master Pro
because this is where things get really
interesting. Sora 2 is incredible. But
here's the reality. To work with AI
professionally, you need access to all
the best models in one place. And you
need a way to actually earn money from
what you create. That's exactly what AI
master gives you. First, all the top AI
models for images and video. Sora 2, VO,
Nano Banana Pro, GPT image models,
everything in one platform. No juggling
subscriptions, no switching between
tools. You create, you generate, you
download. Second, and this is huge, our
built-in creator economy lets you earn
from everything you generate. Here's how
it works. You create content, images,
videos, whatever. You upload it to your
profile. Other users can see it. If they
want to use your content, they buy it
with tokens and you get 80% of that
purchase. 200 tokens equals $1. When you
reach 40,000 tokens, that's $200. You
can withdraw real money. And here's
another income stream. Custom
characters. You create a character,
register it on the platform, and you can
use that character in all your videos
and images. Completely consistent across
every generation. But you can also
license that character, set a price
tokens, and if other users want to use
your character in their generations,
they pay you every time. So, you're
creating content, you're creating
characters, and you're earning from
both. It's not just practice. It's a
real business model built into the
platform. On top of that, you get the
full course library, over 30 hours of
content, the prompt lab with 300 plus
professional prompts, AI master chat
that helps you craft better prompts in
real time. Everything you need to master
AI and monetize your skills. And with
Pro, you get 2,000 tokens every month to
use for your generations. That's ongoing
credit to keep creating without worrying
about running out. right now, 30% off
the annual plan. Link is in the
description. Start with free
generations, explore the platform, test
the creator economy, and when you're
ready for the full experience, upgrade
to Pro. All right, let's get back to
Sora 2. Now that you know the formulas
that work, let me show you the mistakes
that will waste your time and your
generations. Mistake one, prompts that
are too vague. If you type something
like a person walking, Sora has no idea
what you actually want. What kind of
person? Where are they walking? What's
the mood? What's the camera doing? Vague
prompts equals random results. The fix.
Add specifics. Camera angle. Lighting.
Movement. Environment. Mood. Bad. A
person walking. Good. Young woman
walking through a park in autumn. Side
tracking shot. Soft afternoon light.
Peaceful and calm. The second prompt
gives Sora direction. The output will be
intentional, not random. Mistake two.
Expecting perfect physics. Sora 2 is
amazing, but it still struggles with
complex physics, especially liquids,
cloth simulations, or gravitydeying
actions. If you prompt something like
water splashing in extreme slow motion
or fabric flowing perfectly in wind, you
might get weird artifacts or unnatural
movement. The fix: Keep physics simple
and avoid overly complex interactions.
Instead of wine pouring into glass with
perfect splash physics, ultra slow
motion, try wine bottle on table next to
filled glass, elegant restaurant
lighting, static shot. If you need
dynamic liquid or fabric shots, keep
them simple. Gentle pores, soft fabric
drapes, not extreme physics simulations.
Save the complex stuff for real footage.
Mistake three, over complicating your
prompts. I see people writing 150word
prompts with 10 different instructions
and then they're surprised when Sora
ignores half of it. Sora works best with
focused prompts. Keep it under 50 words.
One clear idea per generation. The fix.
Break complex ideas into multiple
generations, then edit them together.
Instead of a chef preparing a meal in a
kitchen with ingredients on the counter
and someone watching and then the dish
being plated and served at a table with
candles and wine, try three separate
prompts. One, chef chopping vegetables
in a modern kitchen, overhead shot,
natural light. Two, close-up of hands
played in a gourmet dish, shallow depth
of field. Three, elegant dinner table
with candles and wine glasses, soft,
warm lighting. Generate all three, then
edit them into a sequence. you'll get
way better results than trying to cram
everything into one prompt. Mistake
four, ignoring aspect ratio. If you're
making content for Tik Tok or Instagram
reels, you need vertical video 9 to6
aspect ratio. If you're making YouTube
content or ads, you need horizontal
16-9. I see people generate everything
in one aspect ratio and then try to crop
it later. You lose quality. You lose
framing. The fix: choose the right
aspect ratio before you generate. AI
Master lets you set this before you hit
the generate button. Mistake five, not
using reference images. Sora 2 lets you
upload images as references. If you're
doing a product video, upload a photo of
the actual product. If you're shooting a
specific location, upload photos of that
place. When you give Sora a visual
reference, the output is dramatically
more accurate and consistent. The fix.
Always upload reference images when
you're working with specific subjects.
Let me show you how this works. I'm
going to generate a car commercial shot
using a reference image. I'll upload a
photo of a specific car. Let's say a red
sports car with unique body styling.
Then I'll write my prompt. Sports car
driving through mountain highway at
sunset. Cinematic tracking shot.
Dramatic lighting. Now I'll hit generate
with the reference image attached. Look
at this. Sora matched the exact car
model, the red color, even the specific
design details from the reference photo.
Without that reference, it would have
just generated some generic sports car.
This is crucial for client work. If
you're doing product demos, branded
content, or anything where accuracy
matters, reference images ensure you're
delivering exactly what's needed, not
just AI's interpretation. All right,
theory is one thing. Let's talk about
how you actually use this in the real
world. Use case one, social media
content. Right now, Sora generated
content is blowing up on social media.
We're talking hundreds of thousands of
likes. The algorithm loves it because
it's new, it's eye-catching, and it's
different from the same recycled stock
footage everyone else is using. Here's
the strategy. Create short, visually
striking clips with unexpected twists or
humor that stop the scroll. Let me
generate a few examples. First prompt,
orange tabby cat seriously doing laundry
in a small basin. Ribbon clothes with
tiny paws. Focused expression. Cozy home
setting. Comedic and adorable. Generate.
Look at this. This is pure viral gold.
The cat doing laundry. People are going
to share this instantly. It's funny.
It's unexpected. It's the kind of thing
that blows up on Tik Tok. Second prompt.
POV camera. Walking through abandoned
basement, dusty concrete floors, finds a
large life-siz Lightning McQueen toy in
the corner covered in dust. Dramatic
lighting. Nostalgic and mysterious.
Generate. Perfect. The nostalgia hit
here is real. That dusty Lightning
McQueen in an abandoned basement. This
is the kind of content that gets
millions of views because it taps into
childhood memories and mystery. Third
prompt. Two dogs sitting at podcast
studio table with microphones wearing
headphones having serious conversation.
Professional studio lighting. Hilarious
and wholesome. Generate. Amazing. Two
dogs hosting a podcast. This is
hilarious and wholesome. People love
animal content with personality. And
this is going straight to the explore
page. You know, people think chasing the
ball is about the ball.
>> It's not. It's about the journey back.
That's where the ear scratches are.
>> Exactly. Fetches an agreement. Trust in
motion
>> and a little cardio, which frankly I
need.
>> Same. But it's worth it every single
toss. These are 5 to 10 second clips
with personality and story. You generate
a handful. Add trending audio post to
Tik Tok, Instagram reels, YouTube
shorts. The engagement is insane because
it's unexpected, funny, or nostalgic.
the kind of content people actually
share. Use case two, product
advertising. If you're running an
e-commerce business or doing client work
for brands, Sora can replace expensive
product videography. Instead of hiring a
videographer, renting a studio, setting
up lighting, you upload a product photo,
write a prompt, and generate a
highquality ad in 30 seconds. Example,
you're selling skincare products.
Prompt: Skinare bottle on a clean wide
surface. Slow 360° rotation, soft
diffused lighting, minimal and elegant.
Generate. Look at this. Clean,
professional, ready to use in a
campaign. You could drop this straight
into your e-commerce site or run it as a
Facebook ad today. The production cost
basically zero. The output quality
professional. Use case three, game
trailers and metaverse scenes. This is a
huge one for game developers and virtual
world creators. You can generate
cinematic trailer footage or concept
scenes without building full 3D
environments. Here's how it works. Write
a prompt describing your game world or
metverse scene. The environment, the
mood, the camera movement. Prompt.
Futuristic cyberpunk city at night. Neon
lights reflecting on wet streets. Camera
flies through towering skyscrapers. Dark
and atmospheric cinematic trailer style.
Generate. Check this out. Atmospheric
cinematic. Exactly what you'd want for a
trailer or crowdfunding pitch. This sets
the tone instantly. No 3D team needed.
You can create concept scenes for
crowdfunding campaigns, investor
presentations, or social media teasers,
all without needing a full 3D team or
expensive rendering. Use case 4, concept
pitches and prototyping. If you're a
creative professional, filmmaker,
designer, marketer, you know how
expensive it is to create concept videos
for client pitches. Sora lets you
prototype ideas in minutes. Let's say
you're pitching a commercial idea to a
client. Instead of describing it in a
deck, you generate a rough visual
concept. Prompt: cinematic shot of a car
driving through a desert highway at
sunset, aerial drone perspective, warm,
golden light, adventurous, and free.
Generate. Beautiful. Show this to a
client and they immediately feel the
vibe you're going for. Way more powerful
than just talking through a deck. They
see it. They feel it. your pitch just
became 10 times stronger. Same thing for
music videos, short films, branded
content. Use Sora to visualize your idea
before you invest in full production.
Four different industries, four
different use cases, all generated in
under 5 minutes total. Let's talk about
workflow. If you're going to be using
Sora regularly, whether for client work,
content creation, or your own projects,
you need a system. Tip one, batch your
generations. Don't generate one video.
wait, analyze, generate another. That's
inefficient. Instead, write out five to
10 prompts in advance. Cue them all up.
Let them generate while you're working
on something else. Come back, review,
and download the ones that work. AI
Master makes this easy because you can
see your full generation history in one
dashboard. Tip two, use the enhance
prompt feature. If you're not sure how
to structure a prompt, write a rough
draft and hit enhance. Let me show you.
I'll type something basic. video of a
sunset over the ocean. Now I'll hit
enhance prompt. Here's what AI master
gives me. It took my vague idea and
turned it into a structured optimized
prompt. This feature alone saves hours
of trial and error. Tip three, save your
best prompts. When you generate
something great, don't just download the
video and move on. Save the prompt.
Create a personal library of prompts
that work for your style, your niche, or
your clients. Over time, you'll have a
collection of templates you can reuse
and adapt. Tip four, experiment with
remix and iterations. Sometimes your
first generation is 80% there, but not
quite perfect. Instead of starting over,
remix it. Change one element of the
prompt, swap the lighting, adjust the
camera angle, tweak the mood, and
generate again. For example, original
cozy bookstore interior, camera slowly
moving between shelves, afternoon light
through windows. Remix, cozy bookstore
interior, camera slowly moving between
shelves, warm evening light, amber
tones, more intimate atmosphere. You're
building on what worked instead of
reinventing the wheel. Tip five, combine
Sora with other tools. Sora is powerful,
but it's even better when you combine it
with editing software. Generate multiple
clips, bring them into Premiere, Da
Vinci, or Cap Cut. Add transitions, text
overlays, music, voice over. You're not
just using raw AI output. You're
crafting a polished final product. This
is what separates beginners from pros.
Beginners post raw AI generations. Pros
use AI as one tool in a larger creative
process. Here's a powerful feature that
a lot of people overlook. You can create
your own custom character or pick one
from the character gallery and use them
across multiple videos. This keeps the
same character consistent in different
scenes which is perfect for storytelling
series content or branded videos. Let me
show you. I'm going to select this
character called Cyber Kitty from the
gallery. Now I'll write a prompt. The
character Cyber Kitty walks into a cafe
and orders a glass of milk. Hit
generate. Look at this. It's the exact
same cat. Same design, same style, same
character, but now in a completely
different scene, doing exactly what I
described. The consistency is perfect.
This is how you build character-driven
narratives or create a series of videos
with the same protagonist appearing in
different situations. You could create
an entire content series with your
character, tell a story across multiple
episodes, or build branded content with
a mascot that stays consistent. This is
a gamecher for creators. This is
everything you need to start creating
professional quality AI videos today. If
you want to take it further, head over
to AI Master. The link is in the
description. You'll get access to Sora 2
and all the latest AI models without
watermarks, the enhanced prompt tool,
the prompt lab, AI master chat, and the
full course library. Right now, 30% off
the annual pro plan, 7-day money back
guarantee. Start with the free
generations. Test it out. See what you
can create. And when you make something
awesome, drop it in the comments. I want
to see what you build. That's it. You're
ready.